p8105_hw1_mas2514.md, before:

Homework 1
================
Maria Serafini

# Problem 1

### This chunk loads the ‘early_january_weather’ dataset from the moderndive library

``` r
#loads dataset early_january_weather
data("early_january_weather")

# gives the size of the dataset by rows and columns
nrow(early_january_weather)
```

    ## [1] 358

``` r
ncol(early_january_weather)
```

    ## [1] 15

``` r
# calculates the mean temperature
mean_temp <- mean(pull(early_january_weather, temp))
```

### The dataset `early_january_weather` includes meterological data for LGA, JFK, and EWR for the month of January 2013.

- **Contains 358 observations representing hourly measurements and 15
  variables:**
  - *origin* - weather station (LGA, JFK, EWR)
  - *year* - year at time of recording (2013)
  - *month* - month at time of recording (1)
  - *day* - day of the month at time of recording (1-15)
  - *hour* - hour of the day at time of recording (0-24)
  - *temp* - temperature (degrees F)
  - *dewp* - dewpoint (degrees F)
  - *humid* - relative humidity
  - *wind_dir* - wind direction (degrees)
  - *wind_speed* - speed (mph)
  - *wind_gust* - gust speed (mph)
  - *precip* - precipitation (inches)
  - *pressure* - sea level pressure (milibars)
  - *visib* - visibility (miles)
  - *time_hour* - date & hour of recording as a POSIXct date
- **The size of the dataset is 358 rows by 15 columns**
- **The mean temperature is 39.58**

Commit message:

add scatterplot and update formatting

p8105_hw1_mas2514.md, after:

P8105 Homework 1
================
Maria Serafini

## Problem 1

### This chunk loads and describes the ‘early_january_weather’ dataset from the moderndive library

``` r
#loads dataset early_january_weather
data("early_january_weather")

# gives the size of the dataset by rows and columns
nrow(early_january_weather)
```

    ## [1] 358

``` r
ncol(early_january_weather)
```

    ## [1] 15

``` r
# gives the mean temperature
mean_temp <- mean(pull(early_january_weather, temp))
```

### The dataset `early_january_weather` includes meterological data for LGA, JFK, and EWR for the month of January 2013.

- **Contains 358 observations representing hourly measurements and 15
  variables:**
  - *origin* - weather station (LGA, JFK, EWR)
  - *year* - year at time of recording (2013)
  - *month* - month at time of recording (1)
  - *day* - day of the month at time of recording (1-15)
  - *hour* - hour of the day at time of recording (0-24)
  - *temp* - temperature (degrees F)
  - *dewp* - dewpoint (degrees F)
  - *humid* - relative humidity
  - *wind_dir* - wind direction (degrees)
  - *wind_speed* - wind speed (mph)
  - *wind_gust* - wind gust speed (mph)
  - *precip* - precipitation (inches)
  - *pressure* - sea level pressure (milibars)
  - *visib* - visibility (miles)
  - *time_hour* - date and hour of recording as a POSIXct date
- **The size of the dataset is 358 rows by 15 columns**
- **The mean temperature is 39.58**

### This chunk makes a scatterplot of temperature by date and hour of recording

``` r
# gives scatterplot of temperature by date/hour of recording and color coded based on relative humidity
ggplot(early_january_weather, aes(x = time_hour, y = temp, color = humid)) +
  geom_point()
```

![](p8105_hw1_mas2514_files/figure-gfm/scatterplot-1.png)<!-- -->
